---
date: 2022-02-21
title: "Homology : Overview"
---



1.  For a topological space `$X\neq\phi$`, we define the *suspension*
    `$\Sigma (X)$` of `$X$` to be the quotient
    `$\Sigma (X) = (X \times [-1, 1])/\sim$` where `$\sim$` is the
    equivalence relation generated by `$(x_1, t_1) \sim (x_2, t_2)$` if
    `$t_1 = t_2$` and `$t_1 \in \{-1, 1\}$`. Let
    `$i_X\colon\thinspace X \to \Sigma(X)$` be given by `$i_X(x) = (x, 0)$`.

    * (a)  Show that `$\widetilde{H}_0(\Sigma (X)) = 0$` and
        `$\widetilde{H}_{n+1}(\Sigma (X))\cong \widetilde{H}_n(X)$` for
        `$n \geq 0$`.

    * (b)  Show that, for all `$n\geq 0$`,
        `$i_{X*}\colon\thinspace\widetilde{H}_n(X) \to \widetilde{H}_n(\Sigma (X))$`
        is the zero homomorphism.

    * (c)  Define `$\Sigma^n(X)$` inductively by
        `$\Sigma^{n+1}(X)=\Sigma(\Sigma^n(X))$` for `$n\geq 0$` and
        `$\Sigma^0(X) = X$`. Define `$\Sigma^\infty(X)$` as the direct limit
        of the directed system
        `$$X \overset{i_X}\longrightarrow \Sigma(X)\overset{i_{\Sigma (X)}}\longrightarrow \dots \to \Sigma^n(X) \overset{i_{\Sigma^n (X)}}\longrightarrow \dots  .$$`
        What is `$H_*(\Sigma^\infty(X))$` (prove your answer)?


2.  Let `$X\subset \mathbb{R}^2$` be the two-holed disc
    `$$X = D((0, 0), 1)\setminus\left(\overset{\circ} D((\frac{1}{2}, 0), \frac{1}{4}) \cup \overset{\circ} D((-\frac{1}{2}, 0), \frac{1}{4})\right),$$`
    where `$D((x, y), r)$` and `$\overset{\circ} D((x, y), r)$` denote the
    closed and open discs with centre `$(x, y)$` and radius `$r$`,
    respectively.

    * (a)  What is the homology of `$X$` (prove your answer)?

    * (b)  Let `$f\colon\thinspace X\to X$` be a map that is homotopic to the
        identity on `$X$`. Show that `$f$` has a fixed point.

    * (c)  **Prove or disprove:** there is a map
        `$f\colon\thinspace X \to X$` with no fixed point.

3.  * (a)  Let `$X = I_1 \coprod I_2$` be a disjoint union of two closed
        intervals and let `$f\colon\thinspace X \to S^3$` be an embedding.
        Show that
        `$$\widetilde{H}_n(S^3 \setminus f(X))= \begin{cases} \mathbb{Z}&\mbox{if } n = 2 \\ 
            0 & \mbox{if } n \neq 2 \end{cases}$$`

    * (b)  Let `$Y = S^1\times I$` be an annulus and let
        `$f\colon\thinspace Y \to S^3$` be an embedding. Show that
        `$$\widetilde{H}_n(S^3 \setminus f(Y))= \begin{cases} \mathbb{Z}&\mbox{if } n = 1 \\ 
            0 & \mbox{if } n \neq 1 \end{cases}$$`
